---
layout: post
title: Responsive Site with Flexbox (Part 2)
---

So here's a little more detail on [the responsive site I built with flexbox](http://www.timothyellison.com/examples/flexbox-news-site/) in just about an hour this past weekend.

The site's ```<body>``` is divided into four sections: ```<nav>```, ```<header>```, ```<main>``` and ```<footer>```. These four elements are block elements, so there's no need to set the body to display columns. The ```<header>``` has no content, so we'll skip past it as we examine the other three elements more closely.

First there's the ```<nav>```. It's set to ```display: flex;``` and ```justify-content: flex-end;```, which will push all of its children toward the end. Which direction is the end on, you might be asking? In this case it's the right. When you set ```display: flex;``` but don't specify a ```flex-direction``` or ```flex-flow```, it defaults to flexing across a left-to-right row. So this pushes all of our nav items into the top right corner. To keep them from cramming together we give the ```.nav__item``` class some padding and set each to ```align-self: center;```. This center's each child of the flex container relative to the container's *cross-axis*. 

This sounds more complicated than it is. When you set an element to ```display: flex```, you either give it a direction of ```row``` or a direction of ```column```. This is its *main axis*. The ```justify-content``` property gives you control over how items are arranged along the main axis. But every element also has a cross-axis. If your main axis is row, your cross-axis is column. If your main axis is column, your cross-axis is row. The ```align-self``` property gives you control over how items are arranged along the cross-axis.

We use this same technique in the ```<footer>```. It's set to ```display: flex;``` and ```justify-content: center;```. This centers it on the row axis. Then we set class ```.footer__text``` to ```align-self: center;```. This gives us a perfectly centered piece of text without having to set any padding or do any hacky ```margin: 0 auto;``` tricks.

Now the ```<main>``` section. This is set to ```display:flex;``` *but* I give it ```flex-flow: column;```. Since I'm writing my CSS mobile-first I write the code for how I want it to look on the simplest possible arrangement. The trick part comes in the media query, where I specify how I want the articles to behave when the screen is equal to or greater than 500px. First I tell ```<main>``` to change its ```flex-flow``` to ```row-reverse```, and then I set each ```<article>``` inside of it to ```flex: 1 0.5 22em;```. Why these two? Basically, I want the articles to flex, but I don't want them to be any smaller than 22em (a completely arbitrary number that I decided on by playing around until I found something that looked good). So sometimes all four articles fit across the screen, sometimes one had to move down, sometimes they fit two on top and two on the bottom, and eventually the screen gets below 500px and they just arrange themselves in a column. So why ```row-reverse```? Because I don't want to have three articles above and one below; I prefer having one article above and three below. Since the first is the default behavior of ```row```, I simply reversed it.

Oof! A little exhausting? I'll just say: half of the techniques I used here I didn't know until I actually built this site. I thought 'Oh, I'd like to do this thing but I don't know how', so I just Googled it, or read Chris Coyier's [guide to flexbox on CSSTricks.com](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/), or crackec open [Ben Frain's book: *Responsive Web Design with HTML5 and CSS3*](https://www.amazon.com/Responsive-Web-Design-HTML5-CSS3/dp/1784398934), and I put their ideas into action on my page. I know this kind of a lousy thing to say at the end of a longish article, but the best way to learn is to make things. Knowledge is crucial, but experience is the best way to give your knowledge muscle.