---
layout: post
title: "Be Giving"
date: 2016-01-16
---
This week at our weekly [Free Code Camp](http://www.freecodecamp.com/) meetup in Boston I decided to spend all of my time just helping people. None of my own projects: just helping other campers out with their problems no matter how big or small.

The result? **I learned so much more** than at any other meetup I've *ever* attended.

Here are the benefits of helping others out.

* **You feel good about not being a selfish jerk.** How much of your day do you spend just helping others without any hope of being paid for it? Most of the time you're not acting like a selfish jerk it's because you're helping out a family member or a friend. Helping strangers at a meetup gives you that good feeling of being amongst family and friends.

* **You see problems from new angles.** There are a probably a lot of fundamental facts about code you don't know, but you can get by well enough without them. You don't even know you *have* these gaps in your knowledge. Short of reading a textbook cover to cover (which I also recommend), the best way to to expose these gaps is to help others. Questions from other people will reveal your unspoken assumptions and biases about coding, and in explaining code to others you'll really confront the limits of your knowledge.

* **You build community.** Building a meetup community is hard. People aren't going to come to invest their time and energy in a meetup unless that meetup provides real value to them. So if you've got no money to give them pizza and no time to prep lectures and speakers, **you have to be the value.** I can't say just yet, but I feel like these people who came to our last meetup are more likely to come back in the future. The more they talked to me, the more they talked to eachother. When I left at 9:00 p.m., our usual ending time, the others stuck around. That was a first. We're building a community.